Procedure	Description
getbestblockhash	Returns the hash of the best (tip) block in the longest blockchain.
getblock	Returns information about a block by hash.
getblockchaininfo	Returns various state info regarding blockchain processing.
getblockcount	Returns the number of blocks in the longest blockchain.
getblockhash	Returns hash of block in best-block-chain at height.
getchaintips	Return information about all known tips in the block tree.
getdifficulty	Returns the proof-of-work difficulty as a multiple of the minimum difficulty.
getmempoolinfo	Returns information about the transaction pool.
getrawmempool	Returns all transaction ids in memory pool.
gettxout	Returns details about an unspent transaction output (UTXO).
gettxoutproof	Generates and returns a merkle proof of txids
gettxoutsetinfo	Returns statistics about the unspent transaction output set.
verifychain	Verifies the block chain database.
verifytxoutproof	Verifies the proof of transaction inclusion in a block.
getinfo	Get general information about the Bitcoin Core node and blockchain.
help	List all commands or get help for a specified command.
stop	Stop Bitcoin Core.
generate	Generates nblocks of blocks immediately to try to increase difficulty.
getgenerate	Returns if generation is enabled and limits
setgenerate	Sets generation enabled flag.
getblocktemplate	Returns data needed to construct a block to mine.
getmininginfo	Returns mining information about blocks, transactions and chain.
getnetworkhashps	Estimates network hashes per second using data from the last n blocks.
prioritisetransaction	Accepts the transaction into mined blocks at higher priority.
submitblock	Attempts to submit new block to network.
addnode	Maintain list of peers, and addresses attempted to connect to.
getaddednodeinfo	Returns information about the given added node, or all added nodes.
getconnectioncount	Returns the number of connections to other nodes.
getnettotals	Returns information about network traffic, bytes in, bytes out.
getnetworkinfo	Returns information about the net parameters
getpeerinfo	Returns data about each connected network node as a json array.
ping	Requests that a ping be sent to all other nodes, to measure ping time.
createrawtransaction	Creates a raw transaction spending given inputs
decoderawtransaction	Return a JSON object representing the serialized, hex-encoded transaction.
decodescript	Decode a hex-encoded script.
getrawtransaction	Returns raw transaction representation.
sendrawtransaction	Submits raw transaction to network.
signrawtransaction	Sign inputs of a raw transaction
createmultisig	Creates a multisig address
estimatefee	Estimates the approximate fee per kilobyte needed for a transaction
estimatepriority	Estimates the priority of a transaction
validateaddress	Return information about the given bitcoin address.
verifymessage	Verify a signed message.
addmultisigaddress	Adds a multisignature address to the wallet.
backupwallet	Safely copies .dat files out of the wallet directory.
dumpprivkey	Reveals the private key corresponding to an address.
dumpwallet	Dumps all wallet keys in a human-readable format.
encryptwallet	Encrypts the wallet with a passphrase.
getaccountaddress	Returns a new bitcoin address for receiving payments to the account.
getaccount	Returns the account associated with the given address.
getaddressesbyaccount	Returns the list of addresses for the given account.
getbalance	Returns the balance of the bitcoin wallet at current block height.
getnewaddress	Generates and returns a new private key and address.
getrawchangeaddress	Returns a new address for receiving change
getreceivedbyaccount	Returns the total amount received by addresses with the given account.
getreceivedbyaddress	Returns the total amount received by the given address.
gettransaction	Get detailed information about an in-wallet transaction.
getunconfirmedbalance	Returns the wallet's balance excluding unconfirmed transactions.
getwalletinfo	Returns an object containing wallet state info.
importaddress	Adds an address or script (in hex) to the wallet
importprivkey	Adds a private key (as JSON) to the wallet
importwallet	Imports keys from a wallet dump file
keypoolrefill	Fills the keypool, requires an unlocked wallet
listaccounts	Returns Object that has account names as keys, account balances as values.
listaddressgroupings	Lists groups of addresses which have had their common ownership
listlockunspent	Lists unspent transaction outputs with lock state
listreceivedbyaccount	Lists balances by account
listreceivedbyaddress	Lists balances by address
listsinceblock	Get all transactions in blocks since block [blockhash]
listtransactions	Returns a list of wallet transactions.
listunspent	Returns array of unspent transaction outputs with between minimum and maximum confirmations
lockunspent	Locks an unspent transaction output
move	Moves funds between accounts
sendfrom	Sends coins from specified address (must have private keys)
sendmany	Sends coins from the wallet to multiple addresses
sendtoaddress	Sends an amount to a given address
setaccount	Sets the account associated with the given address
settxfee	Set the transaction fee per kB
signmessage	Sign a message with the private key of an address
walletlock	Removes private keys from memory, just leaves "watching" keys
walletpassphrase	Stores the wallet decryption key in memory, prompting the user to re-enter
walletpassphrasechange	Changes the wallet passphrase from the command line
gethashespersec	Returns a recent hashes per second performance measurement while generating.
getwork	Returns formatted hashes output and generates Bitcoin work internally.
